# A Deep Neural Netwrok (DNN) for Dignosing Autism Spectrum Disorder Based on resting-state fMRI images

In this study, a DNN with a novel feature selection method (DNN-FS) is developed for the high dimensional   
whole-brain resting-state FC pattern classification of ASD patients vs. typical development (TD) controls.   
The feature selection method is able to help the DNN generate low dimensional high-quality representations  
of the whole-brain FC patterns by selecting features with high discriminating power from multiple trained   
sparse auto-encoders. For the comparison, a DNN without the feature selection method (DNN-woFS) is developed,   
and both of them are tested with different architectures (i.e., with different numbers of hidden layers/nodes).  
Results show that the best classification accuracy of 86.36% is generated by the DNN-FS approach with 3 hidden  
layers and 150 hidden nodes (3/150). Remarkably, DNN-FS outperforms DNN-woFS for all architectures studied.  
The most significant accuracy improvement was 9.09% with the 3/150 architecture. The method also outperforms other  
feature selection methods, e.g., two sample t-test and elastic net. In addition to improving the classification   
accuracy, a Fisher's score-based biomarker identification method based on the DNN is also developed, and used to  
identify 32 FCs related to ASD. These FCs come from or cross different pre-defined brain networks including the   
default-mode, cingulo-opercular, frontal-parietal, and cerebellum. Thirteen of them are statically significant between   
ASD and TD groups (two sample t-test p < 0.05) while 19 of them are not. The relationship between the statically   
significant FCs and the corresponding ASD behavior symptoms is discussed based on the literature and clinician's   
expert knowledge. Meanwhile, the potential reason of obtaining 19 FCs which are not statistically significant  
is also provided.

More details of this research was summarized in the journal paper:  
**Guo, Xinyu, Kelli C. Dominick, Ali A. Minai, Hailong Li, Craig A. Erickson, and Long J. Lu."Diagnosing Autism 
Spectrum Disorder from Brain Resting-State Functional Connectivity Patterns Using a Deep Neural Network 
with a Novel Feature Selection Method." Frontiers in neuroscience 11 (2017): 460.  
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2017.00460/full**  

This work is the part of my Ph.D disertation. 
